PKO-275 Add documentation for Global Image Prefix Override feature (#20)
package-operator/website: content/en/docs/advanced_features/global-prefix-override.md

---
title: Global Image Prefix Override
weight: 2001
---

> The Global Image Prefix Override feature enables deployment of upstream package-operator artifacts from private registries without rebuilding them in downstream pipelines. This solves the previously impossible scenario where organizations needed to mirror upstream images while maintaining original deployment manifests.

Reviewer: That's our internal use case, but the feature generally allows mirroring of package and workload images where the package images reference the workload images with PKO's internal [image digest feature](https://github.com/package-operator/website/blob/904d2c0a90d53e01ed59b602181d47b314925b8b/content/en/docs/guides/image-digests.md).

Author: New commit will read:
The Global Image Prefix Override feature enables deployment of upstream package-operator artifacts from private registries without rebuilding them in downstream pipelines. This solves the previously impossible scenario where organizations needed to mirror upstream images while maintaining original deployment manifests, without referencing the workload images with PKO's internal image digest feature.

## Implementation

> Prefix overrides can be configured through either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefix overrides can be configured through either of these options supplied to the `package-operator-manager` binary:
```

Author: New commit will have this change incorporated

- Environment variable: `PKO_IMAGE_PREFIX_OVERRIDES`
- Command-line flag: `image-prefix-overrides`

> Both accept mappings in `from=to` format (e.g., `quay.io/my-org/=mirror.example.com/mirror-org/`). When Package Operator encounters an image reference starting with the `from` prefix, it automatically substitutes it with the `to` prefix while preserving the remainder of the image path.

Reviewer: Should mention how multiple overrides can be specified (comma separated list).

## Usage Example

> The following `mirror.sh` script demonstrates a complete workflow for deploying Package Operator using mirrored images:

Reviewer: That's not accurate. The script only demonstrates the mirroring of the images and modification of the bootstrap job manifests.

I think this introduction should additionally state that the images for version v1.18.2 are mirrored from the namespace `quay.io/package-operator` into the namespace `quay.io/erdii-test/pko-mirror` so readers will already have an intended goal in mind when reading through the script.

Author: Changed in new commit.

  docker://quay.io/package-operator/remote-phase-manager:v1.18.2 \
  docker://quay.io/erdii-test/pko-mirror/remote-phase-manager:v1.18.2

# Download original bootstrap manifest
curl -LO https://github.com/package-operator/package-operator/releases/download/v1.18.2/self-bootstrap-job.yaml

# Apply global prefix override
yq -i 'with(
      select(.kind == "Job").spec.template.spec.containers[]
    | select(.name == "package-operator").env[]
    | select(.name == "PKO_IMAGE_PREFIX_OVERRIDES")
    ; .value = "quay.io/package-operator/=quay.io/erdii-test/pko-mirror/"
  )' self-bootstrap-job.yaml

# Update direct image references
yq -i 'with(
      select(.kind == "Job").spec.template.spec.containers[]
    | select(.name == "package-operator")
    ; (
      .image |= sub("quay.io/package-operator", "quay.io/erdii-test/pko-mirror"),
      .args[0] |= sub("quay.io/package-operator", "quay.io/erdii-test/pko-mirror")
    )
  )' self-bootstrap-job.yaml 
```

## Key Components Explained

### Image Mirroring: 
The `skopeo copy` commands create identical copies of all upstream images in your private registry, maintaining the original tags and manifests.

### Prefix Override Injection:

> The first `yq` command modifies the PKO_IMAGE_PREFIX_OVERRIDES environment variable to redirect all quay.io/package-operator/ pulls to quay.io/erdii-test/pko-mirror/

Reviewer: The feature does not redirect all pulls. It specifically redirects PKO's package image pulls and it additionally rewrites the prefixes of the templated image address outputs of the [image digest feature](https://github.com/package-operator/website/blob/904d2c0a90d53e01ed59b602181d47b314925b8b/content/en/docs/guides/image-digests.md).

Example template directive: `{{ .images.someNamedImage }}`

Author: added in commit

> The pattern `original-prefix/=new-prefix/` ensures complete path substitution while preserving image names and tags

Reviewer: The pattern is replacing a prefix, not a path.

Author: changed in commit

### Direct Reference Updates:
The second `yq` command handles hardcoded image references that bypass the prefix override mechanism by:

Modifying the container's `.image` field

> Updating the first command-line argument in .args[0]

Reviewer: Please explain what the purpose of these replacements is.

Author: explanation added in new commit.

  
# Deployment Process

## 1. Apply the prepared manifest on the target cluster:
```kubectl apply -f self-bootstrap-job.yaml```

> ## 2. Monitor progress until the ClusterPackage CRD becomes available

Reviewer: this section is empty. Is this intentional?

Author: yes, it is just a directive

## 3. Verification:
```
# Verify package image source
kubectl get clusterpackage package-operator -o yaml | yq .spec.image

# Confirm manager deployment uses mirrored images
kubectl get -n package-operator-system deployment/package-operator-manager -o yaml | yq '.spec.template.spec.containers[].image'
```

> The override system maintains all original functionality while transparently redirecting image pulls, enabling the enforcement of registry policies without modifying upstream deployment logic.

Reviewer: Not accurate. Explained in an earlier comment.

Author: removed

---
title: Global Image Prefix Override
weight: 2001
---

> The Global Image Prefix Override feature enables deployment of upstream package-operator artifacts from private registries without rebuilding them in downstream pipelines. This solves the previously impossible scenario where organizations needed to mirror upstream images while maintaining original deployment manifests, without referencing the workload images with PKO's internal image digest feature.

Reviewer 2: the feature enables using mirrored package and workload images without needing to rebuild the images with new image references
mirroring pko artifacts to private registry is just our use case of this feature

## Implementation

Prefix overrides can be configured through either of these options supplied to the `package-operator-manager` binary:
- Environment variable: `PKO_IMAGE_PREFIX_OVERRIDES`
- Command-line flag: `image-prefix-overrides`

Both accept mappings in `from=to` format (e.g., `quay.io/my-org/=mirror.example.com/mirror-org/`). A comma separataed list in the same format can also be provided for multiple overrides. When Package Operator encounters an image reference starting with the `from` prefix, it automatically substitutes it with the `to` prefix while preserving the remainder of the image path. 

## Usage Example

> The following `mirror.sh` script demonstrates a the mirroring of the images and the modification of the bootstrap job manifests. (Images for version v1.82.2 are mirrored from the namespace `quary.io/package-operator` into the namespace `quay.io/erdii-test/pko-mirror`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following `mirror.sh` script demonstrates a the mirroring of the images and the modification of the bootstrap job manifests. (Images for version v1.82.2 are mirrored from the namespace `quay.io/package-operator` into the namespace `quay.io/erdii-test/pko-mirror`).
```

Author: Good catch. Will commit manually.

    )
  )' self-bootstrap-job.yaml 
```

## Key Components Explained

### Image Mirroring: 
The `skopeo copy` commands create identical copies of all upstream PKO package images in your private registry, maintaining the original tags and manifests.

### Prefix Override Injection:
The first `yq` command modifies the PKO_IMAGE_PREFIX_OVERRIDES environment variable to redirect all PKO package image pulls from quay.io/package-operator/  to quay.io/erdii-test/pko-mirror/
while additionally rewriting the prefixes of the templated image address outputs of the [image digest feature](https://github.com/package-operator/website/blob/904d2c0a90d53e01ed59b602181d47b314925b8b/content/en/docs/guides/image-digests.md). Example template directive: {{.images.someNamedImage}}

The pattern `original-prefix/=new-prefix/` ensures complete prefix substitution while preserving image names and tags

### Direct Reference Updates:
The second `yq` command handles hardcoded image references that bypass the prefix override mechanism by:

Modifying the container's `.image` field
Updating the first command-line argument in .args[0]

> This is required as some componenets might directly reference images without respecting the prefix override, so the need to be explicitly changed. This ensures all PKO package image pulls during bootstrap come from your mirror location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is required as some components might directly reference images without respecting the prefix override, so the need to be explicitly changed. This ensures all PKO package image pulls during bootstrap come from your mirror location.
```

Author: I will make this change manually, I noticed that the "the" should be "they need to be.." as well.

weight: 2001
---

The Global Image Prefix Override feature allows using mirrored package and workload images from a private registry without needing to rebuild the images with new image references.

This feature solves the problem of mirroring upstream images while preserving their original deployment manifests, all without relying on the Package Operator's internal image digest feature.

> For example, this could enable deployment of upstream package-operator artifacts from private registries without rebuilding them in downstream pipelines. This solves the previously impossible scenario where organizations needed to mirror upstream images while maintaining original deployment manifests, without referencing the workload images with PKO's internal image digest feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, this enables deployment of upstream package-operator artifacts from private registries without rebuilding them in downstream pipelines. This solves the previously impossible scenario where organizations needed to mirror upstream images, because PKO's internal image digest feature insist on referencing images by their original address.
```

Reviewer: https://github.com/package-operator/website/pull/20#discussion_r2266442577

## Usage Example

> The following `mirror.sh` script demonstrates a the mirroring of the images and the modification of the bootstrap job manifests. (Images for version v1.82.2 are mirrored from the namespace `quay.io/package-operator` into the namespace `quay.io/erdii-test/pko-mirror`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following `mirror.sh` script demonstrates the mirroring of the images and the modification of the bootstrap job manifests. (Images for version v1.82.2 are mirrored from the registry namespace `quay.io/package-operator` into the registry namespace `quay.io/erdii-test/pko-mirror`).
```

Modifying the container's `.image` field
Updating the first command-line argument in .args[0]

> This is required as some components might directly reference images without respecting the prefix override, so they need to be explicitly changed. This ensures all PKO package image pulls during bootstrap come from your mirror location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that all artifacts required for PKO's bootstrap procedure are pulled correctly , it is required to reference the bootstrap job workload image directly from the mirrored location.

The package image location also gets replaced for readability reasons.
```
